# CS-370-Portfolio

# Briefly explain the work that you did on this project: What code were you given? What code did you create yourself?
The code that I was given for the course project included the two Python files and most of what was contained in the original Python Notebook file. The first Python file included within the project was the GameExperience file, which contained functions that created the intelligent agent's neural network, the maximum number of episodes to commit to the agent's memory, the discount rate of the agent's learning, and the ability to predict and learn from actions taken by the agent. The second Python file included was the TreasureMaze file, which kept track of game logic by updating the game state depending on the actions taken by the agent, which actions were considered valid or invalid, how actions were rewarded or penalized, determining when the game was over, and the maze structure itself. Within the Python Notebook, most of the work was completed to run the game with the exclusion of the logic for the reinforcement learning algorithm. As such, my task was to incorporate the reinforcment learning algorithm so that the intelligent agent could complete the maze and reach the treasure at the end. This was achieved with a Deep Q-Learning algorithm with a learning rate decay function that guided the agent toward the treasure at the end of the maze. The usage of a learning rate decay function allows the agent to explore the maze and learn quickly about its surrounding environment early on, while slowing down the process over time with more focused actions in later attempts until a solution is reached. It then uses the Deep Q-Learning network to map the various game states to the actions the agent takes while playing to eventually determine the optimal route towards reaching the end of the maze and maximizing reward.

# What do computer scientists do and why does it matter?
The field of computer science encompasses many different occupations when discussing what a computer scientist does. The general answer is that computer scientists develop software, networks, and computer infrastucture for various use cases. It could be for public usage, industry or business related, research, government, etc. for example. Regardless of where or how it is used, the software that computer scientists produce is important because many aspects of life in our current age relies on some form of technology. Technology that is enabled to do tasks and perform functions with the help of the software that computer scientists develop for user interaction. Therefore, the work that computer scientists do is essential to maintaining current technological standards as well as improving them in the future.

# How do I approach a problem as a computer scientist?
Because I do not have any experience within a career setting, my approach to solving a problem as a computer science is to follow along with the what my academics provide. I have continued my education in computer science for a few years at this point without much knowledge as to how project pipelines are constructed or how they are followed to meet deadlines since I am still only learning about the processes. None of the projects given in the courses have been as complex to require a lot of prerequisite planning to get the work off the ground either. So I just follow project guidelines and take the coding process one step at a time until I reach a working solution to the given problem. And if errors occur during the process, I am willing to devote as much time as needed to overcome them and deliver error free software. Whether that be through the help of my instructors or scouring help forums to get the answers I need towards addressing the issue. 

# What are my ethical responsibilities to the end user and the organization?
In terms of the end user, a computer scientist's ethical responsibilities include doing no harm. Doing no harm essentially means that the user is not compromised in any way that would disrespect their privacy while using software. Software often requires personal data of an end user to create personalized experiences and access to different features with applications. This information can be entered manually by the user or collected as data in the background while the user engages with the software. It is important that computer scientists be transparent about the reasoning for the usage of personal data before collection so that the user is given opportunity to safeguard themselves from potential threats like data leaks. Handling of user data should be given the utmost care as it is the responsibility of a computer scientist to grasp how personal information can be misused or stolen within software and provide protections against it. As for organizations, computer scientists have an obligation to maintain professional standards since working with employers in computer science is often contractual. Therefore, respecting an organization's trade secrets and their intellectual properties by keeping them confidential and not attempting to profit from them in any personal manner are imporant ethical responsibilities that help maintain good relations between organizations and computer scientist professionals.
